# Meta Learning


## Model-based (special network architecture)

Adam Santoro, Sergey Bartunov, Matthew Botvinick, Daan Wierstra, Timothy P. Lillicrap:
Meta-Learning with Memory-Augmented Neural Networks. ICML 2016: 1842-1850

> They employ a external memory module to storage the reperastion of data from previous tasks. Such a design is similar to knn, except that only the reperastion vectors are stored here, and the memory module is maintained according to the least recently used principle (like cache).

Tsendsuren Munkhdalai, Hong Yu:
Meta Networks. ICML 2017: 2554-2563

> In few-shot learning, it's difficult to parameterize model rapidly through a few examples. They employ loss gradient as meta information and generate fast parameters for learner by a meta-learner. Base learner consists of slow parameters (optimized on specific-task) and fast parameters (generated by meta-leaner with meta-information across tasks).

## Metric-based

Jake Snell, Kevin Swersky, Richard S. Zemel:  
Prototypical Networks for Few-shot Learning. NIPS 2017: 4077-4087  
http://papers.nips.cc/paper/6996-prototypical-networks-for-few-shot-learning  
> "Prototype", a way imitating humans to understand the world. They build a meta-learner mapping instances to a low-dimensional space, and the prototypes of various categories are obtained by clustering. For target task in few-shot learning, the prototypes are built by meta-learner and answer the queries through neighbor-based method.


Mengye Ren, Eleni Triantafillou, Sachin Ravi, Jake Snell, Kevin Swersky, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Hugo Larochelle, Richard S. Zemel:  
Meta-Learning for Semi-Supervised Few-Shot Classification. ICLR (Poster) 2018  
https://openreview.net/forum?id=HJcSzz-CZ  
> This paper extends the prototypical network to semi-supervised scheme. Mask clusters are employed to handle the unexpected instances which doesn't belong to the target task. Such a way of mining unlabeled data is rough and have space for improvement. However, the key problem in this situation is that there is a long way from existing few-shot learning method to practice.





